OSDOCS-1931: Add catalog-build / catalog-push to OSDK docs (#33483)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/osdk-deploy-olm.adoc

// * operators/operator_sdk/helm/osdk-helm-tutorial.adoc
// * operators/operator_sdk/osdk-working-bundle-images.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-golang-tutorial"]
:golang:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "osdk-working-bundle-images"]
:golang:
endif::[]

[id="osdk-deploy-olm_{context}"]
= Deploying an Operator with Operator Lifecycle Manager

Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) helps you to install, update, and manage the lifecycle of Operators and their associated services on a Kubernetes cluster. OLM is installed by default on {product-title} and runs as a Kubernetes extension so that you can use the web console and the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) for all Operator lifecycle management functions without any additional tools.

The Operator bundle format is the default packaging method for Operator SDK and OLM. You can use the Operator SDK to quickly run a bundle image on OLM to ensure that it runs properly.

.Prerequisites

- Operator SDK CLI installed on a development workstation
- Operator bundle image built and pushed to a registry
- OLM installed on a Kubernetes-based cluster (v1.16.0 or later if you use `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` CRDs, for example {product-title} {product-version})

> - Logged into the cluster with `oc` using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions

Reviewer: Logged in to

ifdef::golang[]

> - If your Operator is Go-based, your project must have been updated to use supported images for running on {product-title}

Reviewer: s/must have been/must be

endif::[]

.Procedure

. Check the status of OLM on your cluster by using the following Operator SDK command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ operator-sdk olm status \
    --olm-namespace=openshift-operator-lifecycle-manager
----

. Run the Operator on your cluster by using the OLM integration in Operator SDK:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ operator-sdk run bundle \
    [-n <namespace>] \//<1>
    <registry>/<user>/<bundle_image_name>:<tag>
----
<1> By default, the command installs the Operator in the currently active project in your `~/.kube/config` file. You can add the `-n` flag to set a different namespace scope for the installation.
+
This command performs the following actions:
+
--

> * Create an index image with your bundle image injected. The index image is ephemeral and only intended for development purposes; it is removed during cleanup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create an index image referencing your bundle image. The index image is opaque and ephemeral, but accurately reflects how a bundle would be added to a catalog in production.
```

> * Create an index image with your bundle image injected. The index image is ephemeral and only intended for development purposes; it is removed during cleanup.

Author: This comment about the index image being ephemeral is new. I wanted to distinguish what is going on with this `run bundle` command from the catalog that can instead be created using `catalog-build|push`.

Reviewer: I like it.

* Create a catalog source that points to your new index image, which enables OperatorHub to discover your Operator.
* Deploy your Operator to your cluster by creating an Operator group, subscription, install plan, and all other required objects, including RBAC.

> --

Reviewer: s/install plan/installation plan (if that is accurate)

Author: In this case, it's referring to the `InstallPlan` object, so I'll leave the general reference as-is.

Author: Or maybe I'll switch the 3 general references to API object references so I can mark them all up... :thinking:

Author: Went with the latter. :v:
